welcome to the described directory
services in Asia including Microsoft
entra ID and Microsoft entra domain
Services note when we talk about entra
this was formerly known as Azure ad so
when we say entra ID that was forly
known as Azure ad and entra tenant was
an Azure ad tenant so it's good to know
those historical
terms now if we think about directory
Services we started off on premises so
on Prem es we would have an active
directory domain Services instance so I
can think about we would use a triangle
so active directory was a group of roles
within Windows server and domain
Services was the core directory service
capability now this was an accounts
shared database so I could have for
example users I could have groups of
users I could have machines join that
domain and any resource that was part of
that domain could use that shared set of
credentials and permissions so I had a
great single signon experience for the
users now this active directory domain
Services instance was facilitated by
domain
controllers so I would have normally at
least two but it was one or more domain
controllers that hosted a particular
active directory domain and I could
create a hierarchy into which I could
place all these objects so you would
have a
hierarchy which I could have
child and these were called
organizational units so I could have
this whole hierarchy configured of these
U this was based on the x. 500 structure
and the whole benefit of these is at an
OU
level I could do things like delegation
so I could give you permission to manage
only a subset of resources I could apply
Group Policy which is how I could do
various configurations and restrictions
and obviously I could use it for basic
Organization for my different
resources and so we could structure an
organize it was this hierarchical nature
and then for the interactions it was
designed to work on a private Network so
it used many different ports and
protocols but for the authentication so
that that proof of who I am
it would use
ntlm or CER
Ross it would if I wanted to interact in
query I could use ldap lightweight
directory access protocol and to
actually find the different domain
controllers and the services available
it would use
DNS and once again this worked great
within a private Network because you
could have fairly free flowing types of
communications but now we can think
about the cloud so obviously our Focus
here is azure so now if we scroll this
down now I need a solution for the
cloud and if we think about the cloud
the requirements are very different we
can't just use any port and protocol we
really like to try and use
443 those TLS protected sets of
Communications so I need an identity
provider that can work in the cloud and
this is where entra ID comes in so now I
would create an entra tenant so this is
the
entra ID set of
Technologies and that was the forly
known as Azure active directory now the
whole point here is it's designed to
speak Cloud we're speaking things like a
open ID
connect
saml WS
fed it's all around those cloud-based
authentications and the point is because
it's a cloud identity provider think of
all the different apps that exist out
there well all of those
apps I can
Federate with my particular instance
so what that Federation really means is
that particular app is
trusting this particular tenant my
tenant to perform authentication and
then within my app I may have various
permissions and those permissions will
be in terms of the accounts that are
within this particular tenant so that's
really the whole point around that I
just have one set of accounts in here
and it could be third party applications
third party SAS application
but obviously it's also going to be the
Microsoft Technologies so Microsoft
365 it could be
Dynamics and obviously a huge one in
this context is
azure so all of these once again trust a
particular instance of an entr tenant in
this case your ENT
tenant and for any authentication any
authorization hey I want to go and
access this particular property this
particular resource there's a technology
called conditional access which we're
going to talk about basically it
evaluates the particular
request and it surrounds the entire ENT
tenant so no matter what type of
interaction I'm doing it's going to go
through that conditional access so I can
apply those protections I could maybe
detect risk I can base It On Location
what groups I'm in my Vice state to
protect all of those different
authorizations that's really a key point
and it's not even just pure Cloud
applications one of the things you could
do is Imagine for example I had a
resource on premises that I didn't want
to just expose out directly to the
internet what there different solutions
here as well for example one of the
things we can do
is there's a whole set of entra secure
service edge Solutions so one of them is
called entra private
access so this provides connectivity to
my private resources that I have in a
private network via that entra edge and
then really at the other end of that
scale I can also think about just the
general
internet
but I want to maybe restrict and control
certain sites I can go to well in that
case there's a corresponding
technology entra
internet
access that once again can use controls
to say hey can I access these different
types of
site and for all of these things
obviously you still have machines so I
still have my regular machine
here and those machines can either be
registered I it is a known entity to
your tenant and it can even be joined
and then I can directly authenticate
with one of those Cloud accounts so we
can
absolutely do that registration or that
join and then we can tie into other
Technologies you'll commonly hear about
mobile device Management
Solutions in tune is a Microsoft example
and then that can do the full management
assigned policies of those devices so
it's known to my ENT tenant and then I
can bring mobile device management
Technologies on top of
that now one of the other connections we
have we had this idea of the ENT tenant
and we had our active directory domain
services
but they're very often not isolated as
an organization we have both of them and
so what I really want is the active
directory domain Services is going to be
the source of Truth Now there could also
be a HR System but that's outside the
scope of what you need to worry about
but the accounts come here and what I'm
going to commonly want is for those
accounts to
flow into here
so one option is the account gets
created here and then the
synchronization will create the account
up here as well now I can also just
directly create Cloud accounts that are
not created or synchronized from here to
do the
synchronization there are entra connect
Technologies now there's two different
ones available they're really doing the
same thing but one of them is called
entra connect sync so with
entra
connect sync and this is the original
technology think of it as the engine
that does the work that's really running
on premises so I have to have special
VMS that has these these connector
spaces and it understands and it is
reading and then really pushing those
accounts up the other option we have is
entra cloud
sync and as you would expect here the
engine is running up in the cloud all I
have to have is some very lightweight
agents running on my domain controllers
that facilitates the communication
they're doing the same thing the
accounts are replicated up to entra as a
user I think it's the same account I get
a nice seamless sign on experience so
the they different responsibilities
different things I have to manage we're
definitely moving in that direction but
there are two different
Technologies now the other thing we need
to think about is on premises great you
have your active directory domain
services in the cloud I have my entra ID
but when we think about
Azure one of the thing that's going to
very commonly happen is while in
Azure we have this idea of a virtual
Network we have our subscription we have
a virtual Network and I have have
different resources within here now what
if there's some resource in
here that needs to
speak the old Legacy active directory M
domain Services it needs to maybe do
kerros or it needs to do ntlm or it
wants to speak
ldap this doesn't really speak those
there are some now capabilities and ENT
around keros but for the most part it's
not doing the same things this could do
so how do we solve that there's two
options maybe the simplest option if
available to us is this is a network our
active directory our on Prem is a
network can we connect the networks so
one option is we have some connection a
pipe and that pipe could be for example
a site to site VPN or it could be
express route private peering so now
there's IP connectivity I would have a
certain configuration of DNS so it can
go and find these servers and then speak
kros ntlm
ldap what if I don't have an active
directory domain Services I'm fresh I'm
born in the cloud or I don't want to
expose this to the cloud that's not a
great reason these days with the
security mechanisms the cloud is
probably more secure than the on-
premises but let's say this is not an
option well I can't just use my basic
ENT tenant it doesn't speak those things
but what we can do is this is where we
can use the entra domain
services so the entra domain Services is
a managed domain so what it's going to
do is actually perform a
synchronization this
way into a
managed
entra domain Services instance it's
going to create two domain controllers
for you you have no access to them this
is part of something called a replica
set and so the objects in here will get
created in here as
well so now these resources can talk to
this managed domain and speak C Ross and
NM and ldap I am not an Enterprise admin
I am not a domain admin there are a lot
of restrictions on exactly what I can do
I cannot talk to to The Domain
controllers but if I use the Enterprise
skew and I have different regions I as
long as there's a connection between
these v-ets I could stand up additional
replica sets I can have five in total so
I could have this and then four other
regions with a set of managed domain
controllers but again they have to be
peered so the domain controllers can
replicate to each other and then I get
all of those Legacy capabilities but I'm
not having to manage those domain
control controllers so that is the key
point and this completes this lesson
thank you